Hi, guys.
In this lesson, I'm gonna cover off.
I am policy evaluation logic.
Now, it can be a little bit of a confusing subject.
So let's cover a bit of background first.
So before we get started on the evaluation logic, I want you to remember that we have identity based
policies and resource based policies.
So an identity policy, for instance, is a policy that you apply to an I am role or an I am user or
an I am group.
So these are identities, groups, roles and users.
We then have resource based policies.
So a resource is something like an Ashry bucket and you're applying a policy to the Ezri bucket to define
who's allowed to access that bucket.
We then also have inline policies.
Remember, they're standalone policies and inline policies.
Inline policies are attached directly to the identity.
So in other words, you can't attach the inline policy to an item roll because it's actually just exists
within the context of this user account.
Conversely, with a stand alone policy that you apply to an IBM group, you could also apply to a user
and a role.
Next stop, you need to understand the basic premise of evaluation logic.
So there's a few key concepts that we need to understand.
So identity based policies, we've just covered those and resource based policies.
There's then I am permissions boundaries.
And these are an advance feature that sets the maximum permissions that an identity based policy can
grant to an AI entity.
Now, I don't really see these covered much in the exam, but you need to know what these are for the
evaluation logic.
There's then a W.S. organizations service control policies and these can specify the maximum permissions
for an organizational unit.
Now, an organizational unit is a organizational construct within a W.S. organizations.
Again, not covered much in the exam, but you need to understand that for the logic that's coming up.
That's then session policies.
These were advance policies that you pass as parameters when you programmatically create a temporary
session for a role or federated user.
So what does the logic look like?
First off, bottleful all requests are implicitly denied.
So implicit means there isn't a statement that says it's denied.
It just means that all requests are denied by default.
The root account is different and has full access.
Now, an explicit allow in an identity based or resource based policy overrides the implicit deny.
If you then have the permissions boundary organizations SICP or session policy present that might override
and allow with an implicit denial.
We then have an explicit deny and that overrides any allows.
So let's look at the evaluation logic then.
So this is what it looks like and is quite a lot going on there.
So let's break this down.
So first off, you have your implicit deny.
So decisions start with a deny.
Then you evaluate your applicable policies and you see is there an explicit deny?
And that will always be final decision denied.
If not, then it goes and checks.
Is the principal's account a member of an organization?
So that's a W.S. organizations with an applicable service control policy.
If so, check whether there's an allow.
If not, then deny.
If there isn't, allow, carry on.
And of course, if that isn't an applicable SICP, then it also carries on and then checks for resource
based policies.
Again, goes through the same process checks whether there's an allow otherwise carries on for looking
for the permissions boundary.
It then checks is the principal.
A session assumed using a policy and then go through that same logic.
And then finally checks for identity based policies.
So that's quite a lot to remember.
But I would say for the exam, the key thing to understand.
Remember, it's the evaluation.
Logic starts with an implicit deny.
And then the key ones that you need to know for the exam are resource based policies and identity based
policies.
So we're looking to see whether the resource base policy or identity based policy applies.
And if it does, checking for and allow.
If there's an allow, then it allows.
If there's not, then in this case for a resource based policy, it carries on for an identity based
policy.
If there isn't an allow.
It's basically the final decision.
That's the end of the processing.
So I hope that makes sense, guys.
I'll also link an article from eight of us in the course downloads.
So that might be worth read as well to make sure that you understand this properly.